



Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)                    J. R. Ashworth
Request for Comments: 2100                         Ashworth & Associates
Category: Informational                                    26 April 2020
ISSN: 2070-1721


                          The Naming of Hosts

Status of This Memo

   This document is not an Internet Standards Track specification; it is
   published for informational purposes.

   This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force
   (IETF).  It represents the consensus of the IETF community.  It has
   received public review and has been approved for publication by the
   Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).  Not all documents
   approved by the IESG are candidates for any level of Internet
   Standard; see Section 2 of RFC 7841.

   Information about the current status of this document, any errata,
   and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at
   https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2100.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Poetry
   3.  Credits
   4.  Security Considerations
   5.  Normative References
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   This RFC is a commentary on the difficulty of deciding upon an
   acceptably distinctive hostname for one's computer, a problem which
   grows in direct proportion to the logarithmically increasing size of
   the Internet.

   Distribution of this memo is unlimited.

   Except to TS Eliot.

   And, for that matter, to David Addison, who hates iambic pentameter.

2.  Poetry

   The Naming of Hosts is a difficult matter,
       It isn't just one of your holiday games;
   You may think at first I'm as mad as a hatter
       When I tell you, a host must have THREE DIFFERENT NAMES.

   First of all, there's the name that the users use daily,
       Such as venus, athena, and cisco, and ames,
   Such as titan or sirius, hobbes or europa--
       All of them sensible everyday names.

   There are fancier names if you think they sound sweeter,
       Some for the web pages, some for the flames:
   Such as mercury, phoenix, orion, and charon--
       But all of them sensible everyday names.

   But I tell you, a host needs a name that's particular,
       A name that's peculiar, and more dignified,
   Else how can it keep its home page perpendicular,
       And spread out its data, send pages world wide?

   Of names of this kind, I can give you a quorum,
       Like lothlorien, pothole, or kobyashi-maru,
   Such as pearly-gates.vatican, or else diplomatic-
       Names that never belong to more than one host.

   But above and beyond there's still one name left over,
       And that is the name that you never will guess;
   The name that no human research can discover--
       But THE NAMESERVER KNOWS, and will us'ually confess.

   When you notice a client in rapt meditation,
       The reason, I tell you, is always the same:
   The code is engaged in a deep consultation
       On the address, the address, the address of its name:

               It's ineffable,
               effable,
               Effanineffable,
               Deep and inscrutable,
               singular
               Name.

3.  Credits

   Thanks to Don Libes, Mark Lottor, and a host of twisted
   individuals^(W)o Andrew Lloyd-Webber, Cameron Mackintosh, and a cast
   of thousands (particularly including Terrance Mann) who drew my
   attention to the necessity, and of course, to Thomas Stearns Eliot,
   for making this all necessary.


4.  Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

   Particularly the cardiac security of certain famous poets.

5.  Normative References

   [libes]    Libes, D., "Choosing a Name for Your Computer", November
              1989.

   [lottor]   Lottor, M., "Domain Name Survey", January 1997,
              <namedroppers@internic.net>.

   [wong]     Wong, M., "Cool Hostnames",
              <http://www.seas.upenn.edu/~mengwong/coolhosts.html>.

   [ts]       Stearns, TS., "Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats".

Author's Address

   Jay R. Ashworth
   Advanced Technology Consulting
   St. Petersburg

   Phone: +1 813 790 7592
   Email: jra@scfn.thpl.lib.fl.us
